#Types of Languages

->Strongly typed and loosely typed

- The terms strongly typed and loosely typed referes to how programming languages handle types, particularly how strict they are about type conversions and type safety

Strongly Typed Languages:
-Java, Rust, C++
-Lesser runtime errors
-Easy to catch errors at compile time
-Stricter codebasee

Loosely typed Languages:
-JavaScript, Python, Perl
-Easy to write code
-Low learning curve
-Fast to bootstrap

#Typescript:
-It is a statically-typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript.
-This makes our code more scalable and reliable and we can check that our code runs properly before runtime.

#Declaring Variables

-TypeScript follows the same rules as JS for variable declarations.

#Var
-var declares a variable with function scope or global scope.
Hoisting: Variables declared with var are moved to the top of their scope during the compilation phase.

#Let
-let declarations follow the same syntax as var declaration.
-let introduces block-scoping to variables.

-Avoids variable hoisting: Variables
declared with let are not hoisted
-Provides better scoping: Variables are
confined to the block where they are
declared
-Enhances code readability and
maintainability

#Choosing Between let and var
-let is preferable over var.
-let is block-scoped let variables cannot be
read or written to before they are
declared.
-let variables cannot be re-declared

#Const
-const declares an immutable variable that
cannot be reassigned.
-Immutable variables are useful for
constants or values that should not be
changed

-Ensures immutability: Prevents accidental
reassignment of values.
-Improves code robustness: Immutable
variables can't be modified, reducing
potential bugs.
-Expresses intent: Indicates that a
variable's value should not change.

#Choosing Between let and const
-Use let when the value needs to change
over time.
-Use const for values that should remain
constant
-It is advisable to use const in typescript as
it helps improve code clarity and prevents
accidental modifications.

#How does TypeScript code run?
TS code never runs in your browser. Your browser can only understand JavaScript.
-Javascript is the runtime language (the thing that actually runs in your browser/nodejs runtime)
-Typescript is something that compiles down to javascript
-When typescript is compiled down to javascript, you get type checking (similar to C++). If there is an error, the conversion to Javascript fails.

#Typescript compiler
-tsc is the official typescript compiler that you can use to convert Typescript code into Javascript
-There are many other famous compilers/transpilers for converting Typescript to Javascript. Some famous ones are -
1.esbuild
2.swc
