<h1>Data Types</h1>
-Data types in TypeScript help ensure code
reliability, catch errors early, and improve
maintainability.
-Data types define the nature of values
that variables can hold.
-They specify the operations that can be
performed on variables.
-TypeScript is a statically-typed language,
allowing explicit declaration of data types.

```
const {variable name}: {variable type} =
{variable value}
```

<h2>Types in TypeScript</h2>

-Type annotations: Explicitly declare the
type of a variable or function parameter.

```
Example:
let count: number = 10;
```

-Type inference: TypeScript automatically
infers types based on the assigned value
or usage context.

```
Example:
let message = "Hello, TypeScript!";
// TypeScript infers message as string
```

<h2>Null and Undefined</h2>

-null and undefined: Represents absence
of a value
-"null" represents the intentional absence of
any object value.
-"undefined" represents the absence of a
value for an uninitialized variable.

```
Examples:
Often used to indicate the absence of a
valid value or an error condition.
let result: null = null;
let data: undefined = undefined;
```

<h2>Symbol</h2>
-Used to create unique and immutable
values that can be used as object
properties or keys.

<h2>Complex Data Types</h2>
-Complex types in TypeScript, such as arrays, objects, and function types, provide powerful tools for representing
structured data, modeling real-world
entities, and defining the shape and
behavior of functions.
-By leveraging complex types in
TypeScript, developers can ensure
stronger type safety, enhance code
clarity, and enable precise modeling of
various data structures and function
behaviors.
